---
layout: post
title: Cassandra Jenkins “Hard Drive”
date: '2021-04-02 23:15:00'
tags:
- friday-night-video
- noise

- 







---

Have you ever thought about how hypnosis so closely resembles guided meditation? Especially the beginning of hypnosis, called induction, which is designed to put you into a state of relaxation in which you are more susceptible to suggestion. The watching of the breath, the attention on sensations in the body that focus and settle your mind are integral to both beginning hypnosis and to mindfulness meditation.

When Cassandra Jenkins begins the song “Hard Drive” with spoken word, it feels like a hypnotic induction. With the saxophones playfully decorating the background, the accompanying instruments sound a bit like something off the Blue Nile’s _Hats_ LP. Jenkins transitions to a singing voice as the chorus starts and it sounds all the more beautiful for the contrast with the spoken narrative. The song is masterfully constructed. As Jenkins speaks towards the end of the track, she narrates a friend assuring her of a better future, then slowly counting to three while directing deep breathing, which mimics the part of cuing someone out of hypnosis.

<figure class="kg-card kg-embed-card"><iframe width="200" height="150" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/eW8XoovSlsM?feature=oembed" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></figure>
* * *

_Jenkins talks about therapy in the song. In 2019, she was set to go on tour with Purple Mountains when, a few days from the start, Dave Berman from Purple Mountains passed away. One has to assume that therapy has played an important part in her life._

